# Bundles cookbook 

> If you are looking for a way to run your favorite game in browser, but do not want to develop website,
> then please create bundle for it using this guide, and send request to publis it on [dos.zone](doszone.md)
> 
{style="note"}

**Starting from js-dos 7.xx**, the API expects a `js-dos bundle` that already contains all configuration needed to start the DOS program.
`js-dos bundle` is just a **ZIP** archive that contains the game itself and a js-dos configuration file (same as dosbox.conf file). 
For example, [digger.jsdos](https://v8.js-dos.com/bundles/digger.jsdos) contains: 
```
.jsdos/dosbox.conf - dosbox configuration file (required)
.jsdos/jsdos.json  - additional configuration (optional)
DIGGER.COM         - game file
```

> File `.jsdos/dosbox.conf` is required. js-dos will not start if this file does not exist.
> 
{style="warning"}

You can generate a `js-dos bundle` programmatically. But we recommend you use our [Game Studio](https://v8.js-dos.com/studio)

## Cookbook 

We provide separate tutorials for DOS and Windows games. However, the choice between tutorials should be based not only on the operating system - if you're working with large DOS games, we recommend following the sockdrive tutorial to ensure the best gaming experience.

* [MS-DOS Game **(<100Mb)**](DOS-Games.md)
* MS-DOS Sockdrive **(>100Mb)**
* Windows 3.11
* Windows 95/98
* [Install DOS](install-os.md)
* Installing Windows

## Advanced configuration

### .jsdos/dosbox.conf

> File `.jsdos/dosbox.conf` is required. js-dos will not start if this file does not exist.

This file is a regular [dosbox configuration](https://www.dosbox.com/wiki/Dosbox.conf). Some
features may not be supported yet, but we are working on expanding compatibility.

### .jsdos/jsdos.json

This file contains additional configuration that does not exist in the dosbox configuration file.
For example, it's used to configure [virtual controls](mobile-support-v7.md). If you used game studio
to create bundles then it will also contain all information from `dosbox.conf`. And it looks like:

```json
{
  "layers": [
    {
      "grid": "honeycomb",
      "title": "Layer#0",
      "controls": [
        {
          "row": 0
```

This file can contain any custom configuration you need. You can access it with [Command Interface](command-interface.md).
For example:
```Javascript
const ci = await Dos(/*element*/).run(/*bundle url*/);
const config = await ci.config();
console.log(config.layers);
```

This snippet will print information about gestures that config has. It's a very powerful feature, it can be used
to add new optional features to js-dos. 

## Game Studio

Game Studio is a recommended tool for creating `js-dos bundles`.

`js-dos bundles` generated with a game studio always support the latest features that js-dos have. It generates configuration files for you.

Bundles generated by game studio are not licensed, you can use them however you want.

<tabs>
<tab title="v8">
Open <a href="https://v8.js-dos.com/studio">Game Studio v8</a>
</tab>
<tab title="v7">
Open <a href="https://dos.zone/studio">Game Studio v7</a>

> Bundles are compatible with v8
>
>
{style="note"}
</tab>
</tabs>
